# 小作文

### 称呼

|                       |                      |
| --------------------- | -------------------- |
| Dear Professor Smith, | 用于学术界           |
| Dear Bob,             | 用于关系亲密         |
| Dear Mr. Wang,        | 用于关系不亲密       |
| Dear Sir or Madam,    | 用于不知收信人姓名时 |
|                       |                      |



### 通用结尾

<p style = 'text-align:right'>Yours sincerely, <br>Li Ming





## 开头段





## 中间段





## 结尾段





## 2010 感谢+邀请

Dear Bob,

I wish to express my heartfelt thanks to you for your warm reception in the cultural exchange program. Every moment was a delight. You warmly explained American customs, assisting me to get over culture shock quickly and, more importantly, have a deeper understanding of American culture. 

Additionally, I hope something will bring you to China soon so that I can reciprocate your hospitality. I promise you a fantastic visit, through which you may gain a deep insight into Chinese culture.

My appreciation for your thoughtful kindness is beyond words. I count myself fortunate indeed to have such a generous and charming friend as you. Looking forward to hearing from you soon.

<p style = 'text-align:right'>Yours sincerely, <br>Zhang Wei






## 2011 祝贺信+建议信

Dear Li Ming,

Please accept my heartfelt congratulations on what you have been admitted to Bejing University. You have no idea what a great pleasure I got when I heard the news. Meanwhile, I know this has meant years of study and hard work on your part, and it is an achievement you can well proud of. 

However, as we all know, life in a prestigious university is perhaps not as easy as you have expected. Thus, I wish you could learn to manage life and study by yourself in the following four years, and gradually grow into an adult wholly responsible for yourself. 

All in all, although there is a lot of pressure, the time you spend on your campus will be worthwhile and enhance your whole life. 

<p style = 'text-align:right'>Yours sincerely, <br>Zhang Wei


## 2012 投诉信

Dear Sir or Madam,

A week ago, I bought an electronic dictionary from your online store. However, to my dismay, it doesn't work properly now.

First of all, the ON/OFF button is not flexible, so I have to press it with more stress than needed. In addition, the device becomes so hot after running for half an hour that I have to shut it down in case it burns itself. As you know, but for the reputation of your store, I could have bought one from the local mall.

Therefore, I would like either to change for another model that works better or a full refund. Your help is greatly appreciated. 

<p style = 'text-align:right'>Yours sincerely, <br>Zhang Wei

## 介绍信

Dear Friends,

I am writing the email to introduce one of the most prestigious Chinese celebrities to you, Confucius. 

Being a great thinker, educator and founder of Confucianism, Confucius is an ancient sage during the Spring and Autumn Period. His words and life stories were recorded by his disciples and their students in The Analects. As an enduring classic of Chinese culture, The Analects has influenced all thinkers, writers and politicians in the over-2,000-year-long history of China since Confucius. No scholar could truly understand this long-standing culture or the inner world of the ancient Chinese without this book. 

Much of Confucian thought on Heaven and Man represents universal human values. This is perhaps why Confucian thought in the 21st century still remains the interest of not only the Chinese people but also people in other parts of the world. 

<p style = 'text-align:right'>Yours sincerely, <br>Li Ming









## 邀请信

It is my pleasure to extend an invitation to you to take part in an evening party for the purpose of celebrating my birthday. 

Dear Bob,

How is everything going? I am writing because I want to invite some friends over for dinner and I think you'd like to join us. 





## 建议信

I have some suggestions for you to adopt. 

I would like to extend my great appreciation if you are so kind to take my suggestions into consideration. 

I would like to offer several practical solutions as follows. First of all...In addition...What is more...Last but not least

It is imperative for us to ...



### 2013 倡议信

Dear Classmates,

We know that there are still a great many kids living in poverty. They have little food to eat, few new clothes to wear, and few books to read. I hope every one of us can give them a hand. 

There will be a charity sale in X Square X University on March, 25th. Things to be sold include books, clothes, footwear, furniture, sports equipment, and electronic devices. If you have no more need of some of those things, please come to the sale with them. 

The money collected in the sale will be sent to several remote villages in western China, for the poor children there. 

Let us all show love for the kids!

<p style = 'text-align:right'>Yours sincerely, <br>Li Ming












































